XS-Search, Navigations (add Server-Side Redirects + Downloads) XS-Leaks (#19)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/xs-search.md

+++
title = "XS-Search"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "attacks"
attacks = [
    "dom property",
]
defenses = [
    "same-site cookies",
    "sec-fetch metadata",
]
menu = "main"
+++

> Cross-Site Search (XS-Search) is an important attack and principle in the family of XS-Leaks. The attack abuses Query-Based Search Systems to leak user information, from an attacker origin. The original attack used timing measurements to detect when a search system returned results or no results and works as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-Site Search (XS-Search) is an important attack and principle in the family of XS-Leaks. The attack abuses Query-Based Search Systems to leak user information from an attacker origin. The original attack used timing measurements to detect when a search system returned results or no results and works as follows:
```

Please try to check where you putt commas before submitting the PR for review. I am very likely to not notice these things so I'll probably miss a lot otherwise. Take a look [here](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/comma/) if you need some sort of reference.

> 1. Establish a baseline time for a request returning results (HIT), and a baseline for a request with no results (NO HIT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Establish a baseline time for a request returning results (hit), and a baseline for a request with no results (miss).
```

2. Start a [timing attack](https://TODO) on the request to the search endpoint, brute-forcing the first character (`?q=r`).

> 3. If the measurement is under the HIT baseline then the attacker can move the next character, otherwise, try a new one (`?q=s`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If the measurement is under the hit baseline then add one more character (`?q=ra`); otherwise try a new one (`?q=s`).
```

4. In the end, a full secret (`?q=secret`) can be leaked.

> This attack requires multiple timing measurements to be accurate, something which can be improved with [Inflation Techniques](https://TODO) and statistical analysis. Secondly, instead of brute-forcing letter by letter, attackers can search specific words or sentences to leak only the occurrence of results.

Reviewer: You have a "Secondly" with no "Firstly" and the two sentences seem unrelated, can you please reword this to clarify why one would do either or both things?

Author: That's right. Fixed it in 3ec705a. Replaced Secondly with Furthermore.

> The most important part of this attack is its [principle](https://TODO), as it can be applied in a different number of XS-Leaks.

Reviewer: What do you plan to link to with "principle"?

Author: I want to link to the principle described above. This sentence was supposed to make an high level intro on the wiki sections.

Reviewer: I would remove the link.

Author: Done in 52a2efd

### Inflation Techniques

> The inflation techniques of XS-Search are used to increase de accuracy of the attack to make two request states easier to distinguish (results or no results). These two mechanisms will allow attackers to make better measurements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inflation techniques of XS-Search are used to increase the accuracy of the attack to make two responses easier to distinguish (results or no results). These two mechanisms will allow attackers to make better measurements:
```

- If a search system reflects certain GET parameters into the response when returning results, it will increase the size of the response. This will make the request more distinguishable because the time to prepare the response and send it over the network will grow substantially.

> - Force the server to perform more computation work before returning a response. This can be possible in search systems offering some query language (e.g exclude terms in Gmail).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Force the server to perform more computation work before returning a response. This can be possible in search systems offering more expressive query languages (e.g exclude terms in Gmail will need to process every character in the results).
```

## Extended Principle

> While considering the original Research around XS-Search an XS-Leak itself, the principle of the attack extends to other XS-Leaks. This is important because other XS-Leaks can abuse the principle with higher levels of impact and reliability. For example, if the number of frames on a page varies based on search results, this attack principle could be applied with a [Frame Counting](https://TODO) XS-Leak, which is much more accurate then timing measurements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While considering the original research around XS-Search an XS-Leak itself, the principle of the attack extends to other XS-Leaks. This is important because other XS-Leaks can abuse the principle with higher levels of impact and reliability. For example, if the number of frames on a page varies based on search results, this attack principle could be applied with a [Frame Counting](https://TODO) XS-Leak, which is much more accurate then timing measurements.
```

Please reword this, I would not understand what you meant without knowing it already.

Author: Should be better now. New section in 73843b6, with small fixes in 976b00e

Cross-Site Search (XS-Search) is an important attack and principle in the family of XS-Leaks. The attack abuses Query-Based Search Systems to leak user information from an attacker origin. The original attack used timing measurements to detect when a search system returned results or no results and works as follows:

1. Establish a baseline time for a request returning results (hit), and a baseline for a request with no results (miss).
2. Start a [timing attack](https://TODO) on the request to the search endpoint, brute-forcing the first character (`?q=r`).
3. If the measurement is under the hit baseline then add one more character (`?q=ra`); otherwise try a new one (`?q=s`).
4. In the end, a full secret (`?q=secret`) can be leaked.

This attack requires multiple timing measurements to be accurate, something which can be improved with [Inflation Techniques](https://TODO) and statistical analysis. Furthermore, instead of brute-forcing letter by letter, attackers can search specific words or sentences to leak only the occurrence of results.

The most important part of this attack is its principle, as it can be applied in a different number of XS-Leaks.

### Inflation Techniques

> The inflation techniques of XS-Search are used to increase the accuracy of the attack to make two responses easier to distinguish (results or no results). These two mechanisms will allow attackers to make better measurements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inflation techniques of XS-Search are used to increase the accuracy of the attack to make two responses easier to distinguish (hit or miss). These two mechanisms will allow attackers to make better measurements:
```
